- [Instructor] We've seen some pretty cool ways
to make query methods using property expressions
in clauses with the method signature.
Another way to declare a query method
is by applying the @Query annotation.
The contents of the the @Query annotation
can be a source specific query language,
like JPQL,
or a query language
native to the actual data source management system
like MySQL SQL.
When declaring a query method with @Query
the method signature can be anything you like.
It does not have to follow
the property expression rules.
The course repository
will hold our @Query examples.
Let's look at some reasons
where using @Query is the better choice.
Method simplification.
Sometimes property expressions
can get too long and awkward.
Doesn't find by chair last name
seem more natural than,
find by department chair member last name?
Parameter substitution
is possible with the @Param annotation.
If I didn't supply @Param
then the @?, in a number works just as well.
Another reason to use @Query
is that the query is too complex
for property expressions.
In the first query,
we need to make
a JPQL join of course,
to prerequisite courses.
The second query has a JPL select new,
which returns a whole new object
that's not even a JPA entity.
There are times when you need to go native.
Meaning, actually make a call
to the native data management system.
You can do this by setting
the native query attribute to, true.
Even for a native query,
the resulting rows are still mapped back
to the JPA entity.
In this example, I am making a call
out to MySQL SQL to find the three youngest students.
It may sound strange but as of Java EE 6
JPQL does not have the ability
to limit the results of a query.
Something which is possible
with property expressions.
So, let's look at our
course repository
and here's where we have
the usage of the @Query.
And
I'm going to go into query demos
the JPQL queries method
and as we step through these,
I've actually put in the comment,
the JPQL associated with it
so we don't have to
go back and forth to the repository.
So, first I'm gonna show how method simplification
is better with @Query
so this is the long signature
just to look up
department by the member last name.
So find by chair last name, is Jones.
See the console.
So this is going to find
all the courses
that are in a department
where the department's head
or chair,
has a last name of Jones.
So, if you remember
Dean Jones was the department chair
for both Humanities and Social Sciences.
So that's why we see all those courses.
So now we're gonna do some complex queries.
First I'm looking up the English 101 course.
And it's gonna help us
as parameters to our query.
So,
we want to
look up all the courses
where English 101 is the prerequisite.
Find course by prerequisite,
passing in the english 101 ID.
So, here's all the courses
where you have to take English 101
before moving on.
And now we're going to use the JPQL Select New
where it allows us to actually
instantiate a new object
that's not necessarily
a JPA entity.
And so we're passing in English 101
and the ID of that.
Here is our course view.
Where we don't want all
of the other attributes like the ID.
We just wanna know the name of the course,
the instructor's last name
and the name of the department it's in.